Libbmp085 is a simple, easy to use C library for communication with Bosh BMP085 barometric pressure and temperature sensor
on Linux. It provides access to the BMP085 sensor from the userspace through the /dev interface. Module i2c-dev must be loaded before library use.
The library implements functions for: connecting to BMP085 sensor over I2C bus; reading the sensor calibration table; 
initiates temperature and pressure measurement and reads measured values from the sensor. It supports all BMP085 modes 
of operation.

Usage

The sensor properties and readings are defined in a structure called BMP085 that includes: I2C address, mode of operation, table with
calibration coefficients and variables to store the values of the measured temperature and barometric pressure.

typedef struct bmp085
{
	char i2cAddress;			  //I2C address of the sensor	
	unsigned char calibrationCoeficients[22]; //calibration table
	float temperature;			  //measured temperature value in degrees Celsius
	long pressure;				  //sensor reading for barometric pressure in Pascals	
	overSampling oss;			  //BMP085 mode of operation
} BMP085;

The following functions are included in the library:
- int connect2BMP085(int *,char *,char). To establish connection with the BMP085 server. Returns 0 for successful connection, 1 for error;

- int readBMP085CalibrationTable(int, BMP085 *); The function reads the calibration table of BMP085.
  It returns 1 in case of communication error or 0  for successful data retrieval. Call this function before taking the measurement.

- int BMP085takeMeasurement(int, BMP085 *); Reads the current temperature and pressure from the sensor and updates the structure BMP085 
  with the readings from the sensor.
  The function returns 0 in case of successful reading, or 1 if there is error during the communication with the sensor.
  ReadBMP085CalibrationTable function must be called before taking the measurement.

- void printBMP085CalibrationTable(BMP085 *); The function prints the calibration table of the BMP085 sensor.
  ReadBMP085CalibrationTable must be called first.
 
The library is distributed with an example program that measures temperature and barometric pressure using BMP085 sensor module from Adafruit (Adafruit product ID 391) connected to Raspberry Pi model B. 


WARNING: The library is tested on Raspberry Pi Model B Revision 1 board with latest version of Rasbian Linux.
Before use, always check the GPIO and I2C manuals for your Raspberry Pi board to
take possible hardware changes on Pi board in consideration.

The source is provided as it is without any warranty. Use it on your own risk!
The author does not take any responsibility for the damage caused while using this software.






